jmin-jlink/README.md, before:

<!--
Copyright (c) 2020, 2020 IBM Corp. and others

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which accompanies this
distribution and is available at https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
or the Apache License, Version 2.0 which accompanies this distribution and
is available at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following
Secondary Licenses when the conditions for such availability set
forth in the Eclipse Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU
General Public License, version 2 with the GNU Classpath
Exception [1] and GNU General Public License, version 2 with the
OpenJDK Assembly Exception [2].

[1] https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html
[2] http://openjdk.java.net/legal/assembly-exception.html

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR Apache-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0 OR LicenseRef-GPL-2.0 WITH Assembly-exception
-->

# jmin-jlink

Includes:
- **hellomodule.HelloWorld**, a simple app that contains classes, methods and fields - some of which should be removed during minimization;
- **MinimimizeClassesPlugin**, a jlink plugin that minimizes an image using jarmin/jmin (jarmin/jmin-related code is commented out)
- **MinimizeClassesPluginAgent**, a java agent that allows a custom implementation of a plugin to be used with jlink

---

## How to Run
Follow these instructions to run jlink with the custom plugin (jlink option `--minimize-classes`) enabled by the java agent, 
on a simple app contained in `hellomodule`. The resulting image is generated in the `build/image` directory and output from 
the `jlink` command is piped to `minimizeclasses.out`.

As this code involves Java modularity, **Java 11 or above is required**. 
Take note of the path to your JDK `<PATH_TO_JDK>` as it is needed to run the below commands.

From the `jmin-jlink` directory, run the following:

### **Build and Run with `make`**
If you have `make` installed (GNU Make 3.81 and above recommended), either set environment variable `JAVA_HOME` to the path to 
your JDK, or append `JAVA_HOME="<PATH_TO_JDK>"` to the commands as indicated below.

Then, you can simply run:
- `make all`: Compile `hellomodule`, plugin, agent and create agent JAR\
     - `make all JAVA_HOME="<PATH_TO_JDK>`: Pass JAVA_HOME explicitly
- `make test`: Run the custom jlink plugin with hellomodule\
     - `make test JAVA_HOME="<PATH_TO_JDK>`: Pass JAVA_HOME explicitly
- `make clean`: Delete the build output directory

### **Build and Run Manually**
Otherwise, to run the commands manually, prepend your JDK's `<PATH_TO_JDK>` to each command below.

### Compile the hellomodule module
```
mkdir -p build/modules/hellomodule

<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/modules/hellomodule \
	src/module-info.java \
	src/hellomodule/*.java
```

### Compile the custom jlink plugin
_MinimizeClassesPlugin custom plugin for jlink_
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/plugin \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.internal=jmin.jlink \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.plugin=jmin.jlink \
	plugin/jmin.jlink/module-info.java \
	plugin/jmin.jlink/jmin/jlink/plugin/*.java
```

### Compile the java agent
_MinimizeClassesPluginAgent, Java Instrumentation Agent for the custom jlink plugin_
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/agent \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.internal=plugin.agent \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.plugin=plugin.agent \
	agent/plugin.agent/module-info.java \
	agent/plugin.agent/jmin/jlink/agent/*.java
```

### Create java agent JAR
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jar \
	--create \
	--file=build/jminjlinkagent.jar \
	--manifest=agent/plugin.agent/MANIFEST.MF \
	-C build/agent module-info.class \
	-C build/agent jmin
```

### Run the custom jlink plugin with hellomodule
The resulting image will be generated in the `build/image` and output generated by the command/plugin will be in `minimizeclasses.out` as well as printed to standard output.

```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jlink \
	-J-javaagent:build/jminjlinkagent.jar \
	-J--module-path=:build/plugin \
	-J--add-modules=jmin.jlink \
	--minimize-classes \
	--module-path=build/modules \
	--add-modules hellomodule \
	--output build/image \
		2>&1 | tee minimizeclasses.out
```

### View the output in minimizeclasses.out
Here's a sample of what the first few lines of output look like:
```
previsiting!!

java.base
/java.base/module-info.class
CLASS_OR_RESOURCE

java.logging
/java.logging/module-info.class
CLASS_OR_RESOURCE

hellomodule
/hellomodule/module-info.class
CLASS_OR_RESOURCE
```

---

### Simple Sample App
#### The hellomodule sample app

- **HelloWorld.java**: contains main method and classes/methods/fields, some of which should be removed via minimization\
- **ReferencedClass.java**: a class that is referenced in HelloWorld.java, so it should be included in the image\
- **UnusedClass.java**: a class that is not used in the sample app, so it should be removed from the image

#### Compile the hellomodule module
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/modules/hellomodule \
	src/module-info.java \
	src/hellomodule/*.java
```

#### Run the hellomodule sample app
After compiling, run:
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/java \
	--module-path build/modules/hellomodule \
	--module hellomodule/hellomodule.HelloWorld
```

EXAMPLE OUTPUT:
```
Jul. 27, 2020 6:31:15 P.M. hellomodule.HelloWorld main
INFO: Hello World!
ReferencedClass.aMethod()
```

#### Create a hellomodule jar (i.e. to use with jarmin)
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jar \
	--create \
	--file=build/hellomodule.jar \
	--manifest=src/MANIFEST.MF \
	-C build/modules/hellomodule module-info.class \
	-C build/modules/hellomodule hellomodule
```

---

### Other Useful Commands

After creating the hellomodule jar, run :\
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jdeps \
	<JDEPS_OPTIONS> \
	build/hellomodule.jar
```
- `<JDEPS_OPTIONS>`: some examples are `--list-deps`, `--print-module-deps`

Note that `jdeps` is a static analysis tool, so it doesn't identify modules that are dynamically required, such as those required in reflection or service providers.

Commit message:

Add note for building on windows in README
Signed-off-by: Sharon Wang <sharon-wang-cpsc@outlook.com>

jmin-jlink/README.md, after:

<!--
Copyright (c) 2020, 2020 IBM Corp. and others

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under
the terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which accompanies this
distribution and is available at https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0/
or the Apache License, Version 2.0 which accompanies this distribution and
is available at https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following
Secondary Licenses when the conditions for such availability set
forth in the Eclipse Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU
General Public License, version 2 with the GNU Classpath
Exception [1] and GNU General Public License, version 2 with the
OpenJDK Assembly Exception [2].

[1] https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html
[2] http://openjdk.java.net/legal/assembly-exception.html

SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0 OR Apache-2.0 OR GPL-2.0 WITH Classpath-exception-2.0 OR LicenseRef-GPL-2.0 WITH Assembly-exception
-->

# jmin-jlink

Includes:
- **hellomodule.HelloWorld**, a simple app that contains classes, methods and fields - some of which should be removed during minimization;
- **MinimimizeClassesPlugin**, a jlink plugin that minimizes an image using jarmin/jmin (jarmin/jmin-related code is commented out)
- **MinimizeClassesPluginAgent**, a java agent that allows a custom implementation of a plugin to be used with jlink

---

## How to Run
Follow these instructions to run jlink with the custom plugin (jlink option `--minimize-classes`) enabled by the java agent, 
on a simple app contained in `hellomodule`. The resulting image is generated in the `build/image` directory and output from 
the `jlink` command is piped to `minimizeclasses.out`.

As this code involves Java modularity, **Java 11 or above is required**. 
Take note of the path to your JDK `<PATH_TO_JDK>` as it is needed to run the below commands.

From the `jmin-jlink` directory, run the following:

### **Build and Run with `make`**
If you have `make` installed (GNU Make 3.81 and above recommended), either set environment variable `JAVA_HOME` to the path to 
your JDK, or append `JAVA_HOME="<PATH_TO_JDK>"` to the commands as indicated below.

Then, you can simply run:
- `make all`: Compile `hellomodule`, plugin, agent and create agent JAR\
     - `make all JAVA_HOME="<PATH_TO_JDK>`: Pass JAVA_HOME explicitly
- `make test`: Run the custom jlink plugin with hellomodule\
     - `make test JAVA_HOME="<PATH_TO_JDK>`: Pass JAVA_HOME explicitly
- `make clean`: Delete the build output directory

### **Build and Run Manually**
Otherwise, to run the commands manually, prepend your JDK's `<PATH_TO_JDK>` to each command below.

### Compile the hellomodule module
```
mkdir -p build/modules/hellomodule

<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/modules/hellomodule \
	src/module-info.java \
	src/hellomodule/*.java
```

### Compile the custom jlink plugin
_MinimizeClassesPlugin custom plugin for jlink_
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/plugin \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.internal=jmin.jlink \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.plugin=jmin.jlink \
	plugin/jmin.jlink/module-info.java \
	plugin/jmin.jlink/jmin/jlink/plugin/*.java
```

### Compile the java agent
_MinimizeClassesPluginAgent, Java Instrumentation Agent for the custom jlink plugin_
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/agent \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.internal=plugin.agent \
	--add-exports jdk.jlink/jdk.tools.jlink.plugin=plugin.agent \
	agent/plugin.agent/module-info.java \
	agent/plugin.agent/jmin/jlink/agent/*.java
```

### Create java agent JAR
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jar \
	--create \
	--file=build/jminjlinkagent.jar \
	--manifest=agent/plugin.agent/MANIFEST.MF \
	-C build/agent module-info.class \
	-C build/agent jmin
```

### Run the custom jlink plugin with hellomodule
The resulting image will be generated in the `build/image` and output generated by the command/plugin will be in `minimizeclasses.out` as well as printed to standard output.

```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jlink \
	-J-javaagent:build/jminjlinkagent.jar \
	-J--module-path=:build/plugin \
	-J--add-modules=jmin.jlink \
	--minimize-classes \
	--module-path=build/modules \
	--add-modules hellomodule \
	--output build/image \
		2>&1 | tee minimizeclasses.out
```

_Note: If running on Windows, you may need to use `-J--module-path=';build/plugin'` and `-J--add-modules='jmin.jlink'` instead_

### View the output in minimizeclasses.out
Here's a sample of what the first few lines of output look like:
```
previsiting!!

java.base
/java.base/module-info.class
CLASS_OR_RESOURCE

java.logging
/java.logging/module-info.class
CLASS_OR_RESOURCE

hellomodule
/hellomodule/module-info.class
CLASS_OR_RESOURCE
```

---

### Simple Sample App
#### The hellomodule sample app

- **HelloWorld.java**: contains main method and classes/methods/fields, some of which should be removed via minimization\
- **ReferencedClass.java**: a class that is referenced in HelloWorld.java, so it should be included in the image\
- **UnusedClass.java**: a class that is not used in the sample app, so it should be removed from the image

#### Compile the hellomodule module
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/javac \
	-d build/modules/hellomodule \
	src/module-info.java \
	src/hellomodule/*.java
```

#### Run the hellomodule sample app
After compiling, run:
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/java \
	--module-path build/modules/hellomodule \
	--module hellomodule/hellomodule.HelloWorld
```

EXAMPLE OUTPUT:
```
Jul. 27, 2020 6:31:15 P.M. hellomodule.HelloWorld main
INFO: Hello World!
ReferencedClass.aMethod()
```

#### Create a hellomodule jar (i.e. to use with jarmin)
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jar \
	--create \
	--file=build/hellomodule.jar \
	--manifest=src/MANIFEST.MF \
	-C build/modules/hellomodule module-info.class \
	-C build/modules/hellomodule hellomodule
```

---

### Other Useful Commands

After creating the hellomodule jar, run :\
```
<PATH_TO_JDK>/bin/jdeps \
	<JDEPS_OPTIONS> \
	build/hellomodule.jar
```
- `<JDEPS_OPTIONS>`: some examples are `--list-deps`, `--print-module-deps`

Note that `jdeps` is a static analysis tool, so it doesn't identify modules that are dynamically required, such as those required in reflection or service providers.
